We're coming to an end for this module. As you can tell,
you can build a responsive and adaptive application with Flutter.
You have one widget tree
and in places where you want to build something different based on the device size or on the operating
system, you use if conditions or ternary expressions to render different widgets or configure widgets
differently,
that's what we did throughout this entire module.
Now of course, it's always a good idea to therefore split your overall widget tree into small, manageable
pieces because here in the main.dart file, we have a rather big widget tree now, a rather big build function
and there of course, we could think about splitting parts of that into separate widgets.
One candidate you could outsource would be this part here in our main.dart file, this column where we
render the switch in that either the chart and/or chart and the transaction list. That could go into a separate
widget,
that would have to be a stateful widget where you then control which mode you're in,
do you want to show the chart or not,
where you then also check for landscape mode and have your media query variable in there and creating
that extra widget is certainly a nice practice, it would allow you to have a leaner widget here in the
main.dart file. Another part where you can save extra code and have an easier time building your widget
trees is when you have checks like we have it here in the new transaction widget, where we render either a
CupertinoButton or a FlatButton.
If you watch closely, we have the same configuration, the same text and the same handler here when the
button is pressed but I'm rendering two different widgets
and I have this check here deciding which widget to render. For such scenarios,
you can build your own widgets, your adaptive widgets
so to say. You could name this adaptive button, the name is totally up to you though and in my
adaptive_button.dart file,
I would have a stateless widget which I'll name adaptive button
and it's named adaptive button because it automatically adapts to the underlying platform and simply
renders a button, maybe AdaptiveFlatButton.
So for that, I'll import material here and also Cupertino because I'll need that as well,
so import cupertino.dart and since I rename the class here, I'll also rename the file name
to adaptive_flat_button
and now we can grab that code here with Platform.isIOS and then the different buttons being rendered.
Cut it here from new transaction and add it instead here as a return value in the
AdaptiveFlatButton class. For the platform class to be available,
we now need to import dart:io
and now we just need to take these flexible parts or the configurable parts as inputs, so that we can
use AdaptiveFlatButton anywhere in our application where you want to render a FlatButton which automatically
is either the default material flat button or the iOS, the Cupertino FlatButton.
So here, I'll add a final property which is a string text
and another final property which will hold a function in the end, a handler and then
a constructor here where we assign values to both the text and to the handler
You can also use named arguments here if you want.
and now the flexible parts down there, choose date for example, there I'm referring to my text property and
for the handler here or for this function, I referred to my handler property which I defined.
And now we just have to pass in values for these things and remove the trailing comma here and now we
have an AdaptiveFlatButton which we can use just like that anywhere in our widget tree.
So here I can now use
AdaptiveFlatButton
and of course add an import to your widget up there,
let's fix the path like this
and now we just import our AdaptiveFlatButton and then use it down there
by passing in the data that's required, like the text for the button choose date and then here, our handler
which is present date picker, like this. And with that,
now we have one widget which we can dump anywhere in our widget tree to render a FlatButton which has
the correct underlying widget based on the platform we're running on.
Now this pattern does not work for every Cupertino widget but for a lot of widgets, you can easily build
your own adaptive widgets to reduce the amount of boilerplate code you have to write and the amount
of code duplication.